Man, through the ages, has undergone any changes from the time when he had to haunt
for food to these days when he has to buy it. Some people prefer to buy fresh vegetables,
meat and fruits and prepare food at home. However, other people prefer to skip that step
with cooking and have dinner at a restaurant. I think that both of these choices have some
advantages and disadvantages. Bellow I will give some reasons to support my answer.
Personally, I do not like fast food. So, my choice is always between a restaurant and my
home. First of all, I would like to say that cooking is a great tradition. It helps people to
relax, reflect on some pleasant moments while peeling or cutting the vegetables. It is a
means of eliminating one's stress and tension. Second of all, sometimes I do not want to
have something too complicated for my dinner. I just want to have light food like a salad
and a glass of milk. So, one of the reasons why I like to eat at home is because I can
have what I want at this moment. One greater thing about eating at home is that I can sit
in front of the TV and watch an interesting program or a movie. Finally, having dinner at
home allows a family communicates with each other, be closer and share some good and
bad moments that happened earlier that day. Besides, eating at home is a great way to
save some money.
As for restaurants, I see some positive aspects about eating there too. First of all, I
sometimes get tired from peeling, cutting, washing, frying, etc. It does not mean I do it a
lot. Sometimes I just use the microwave and a preprocessed food that I bought earlier. I
want to have something more delicious than I have in my refrigerator, something that is
time-consuming to prepare at home. So, for me it is a good reason to go to a restaurant.
There one may meet old friends or just has a great time listening to music and tasting
some delicious meats.
Also, restaurants are a good place to celebrate something. One does not have to prepare
food for all friends who are coming, wash dish, put in order all that mess after the party,
etc.
In conclusion, I think that it does not important where one has one's dinner. What
important is that it must be full and nutritious.