Throughout the ages, man has tried to create beauty through painting, music, sculpture
and other artistic expression. It seems to be a basic need of humans to surround
themselves with art. However some people feel that government money spent on art is
wasted, particularly when there are so many other demands on it. This essay will examine
the conflict between those who say art is important and those who feel it is a waste of
money.
It can be wrong for governments to spend large sums of money on art. Too often,
governments spend unwisely. They spend money on art not because a picture is good or
a museum is needed, but for political reasons. Cities end up with huge statues or empty
expensive buildings that are used only by a few people or the elite. Another point is that
the artworks are often chosen to represent social or political rather than artistic ideas. The
city gets yet another statue of the leader or an ugly monument to national aspirations. A
third point is that governments often respond to fashions, and tastes in art can change
very rapidly. Without careful advice an expensive collection of worthless paintings or
tasteless productions can be the result.
However, it would be wrong to say that governments should not spend any money at all
on art. Painters, musicians, and composers cannot survive without financial support. Rich
people or large companies do finance art, but then it is often inaccessible to ordinary
people. Governments have a duty to make this art available to everyone. However, the
most important reason why governments should support the arts is because an
appreciation of art is one of the things that makes life worthwhile. Humans do not need
just shelter and food. Creative people have always tried to look at things in a new way
and to make the world a better place through painting, music, poetry, calligraphy,
sculpture, dance, and numerous other forms of expression. While art may not make us
immortal, it does make the world a richer place for future generations.
In conclusion, although people do need to be provided with the necessities of life, such as
housing and medical care, governments also have a duty to provide their citizens with
something more. They should make sure that they pass on beauty, ideas and expression
to the next generation and make art available to all instead of being the possession of
only the few. I firmly believe that spending money on art is a vital part of a government's
responsibility, and I am confident that my country will be able to contribute its share to the
richness of the world's art and creativity.