Advantages of Animal Testing in Medical Research
Medical research involving animals has dramatically improved the health of the human
race. Without animal testing, the cure for polio would not exist and diabetics would suffer
or die from their disease. Despite these benefits, some people believe that animals should
be not be used for testing medical techniques and drugs. This essay will outline the
advantages of animal testing.
Animal testing allows scientists to test and create new drugs. Animals such as monkeys
or rabbits have similar physical processes to humans. This allows scientists to test the
effects of certain drugs. If a drug produces adverse effects in animals it is probably unfit
for human use.
Animal testing is cheap. There is a large supply of animals for medical research. Animals
are easily bred, and maintained safely in controlled labs. The costs of testing in humans
would be extremely high.
Many people argue that animal testing is cruel. In some cases this is true. However it
would be much more cruel to test new drugs on people or children, or to let people die
because there was not enough information about a drug. Furthermore, legislation in most
countries sets standards for animal treatment, and laboratories have guidelines to prevent
cruelty.
Opponents of animal research also say that information from animals does not apply to
humans. They point to certain commercial drugs which have been withdrawn because of
side-effects in humans While it is true that animal systems differ from human systems,
there are enough similarities to apply information from animals to humans.
Animal rights campaigners claim that we don’t need new tests because we already have
vast amounts of information. However, many new deadly infections appear every year
and new treatments and drugs are needed to combat these deadly plagues.
Animal testing is needed in the world we live in. Our responsibility is to manage the
animals in our care and balance their suffering against the good that comes from them.