Nowadays people have so many things to do that they almost always do not have enough
time for it. When we go to bed we carefully think and plan our next day and it continues
day in and day out. We wake up, recollect our checklist with things to do and in a few
minutes we are already in a car on our way to the office. Often people do not have time
for themselves. So, when people have some spare time they want to use it wisely. Some
people prefer to plan activities for their free time very carefully. However, others prefer not
to make any plans. In this essay I will analyze both cases and present my view in favor of
planning free-time activities.
From the one side, not making any plans and just letting the time pass by for some time
have some benefits. First of all, a person can just relax, enjoy the beautiful moments,
spend his or her time with loved ones, watch a movie, listen to relaxing music, observe
the flowers in bloom from the window, contemplate about his or her life and just slow
down the pace of life. I think it is a very good way to eliminate one's stress and tension
and just leave all troubles and worries behind.
From the other side, careful planning can bring many benefits too. First of all, one can
travel. However, traveling requires some planning to be made. For example, one most
likely will need a hotel room. So, the reservation should be made beforehand. Also, it is
wise to check one's car to avoid breakdowns and have an uninterrupted worry-free trip.
Second of all, planning one's activities allows to spend one's free time the way he/she
likes. For instance, if I want to play tennis on incoming week-end I will certainly make a
reservation for a court because in this case I will not be disappointed with the waste of my
time. Personally, I prefer to make plans for my free time because it allows me to spend my
vacation or week-ends the way I want it.
To sum up, I think careful planning allows people to derive maximum benefits from their
free time. However, I must confess sometimes I allow my self just to stay at home with my
friends and family and not make any plans.