Some people believe that it is better for children to grow up in the countryside than in a
big city. However, other people think that a big city gives more opportunities and it is good
for the long run. Personally, for several reasons I think that it is better for children's health
to grow up in the country.
First of all, it is very important for a child to grow up in a healthy environment. Children
need fresh air, not polluted by the huge amount of cars and factories of the modern city.
In the country they can spend more time exercising and walking with their friends.
Scientists say that now children spend the same amount of time watching TV as they do
at school. Probably, the possibility to join their friends for a play will change this
proportion. Another important aspect of this is that parents will have more time to spend
with their children as a result of eliminating traffic jams and decreasing driving time as a
whole.
From the other side, children have some advantages living in a big city. For example, they
have more opportunities to choose from what they want to do. They can choose to attend
ballet school, school of art, gymnastics, etc. For the long run, it is good for them. They will
be better prepared for a live in a "real world" and they will have more chances to make a
good career and succeed. Moreover, a big city usually has many entertaining centers with
movie theatres and play stations. When I was a child I liked to go to the movie theatre
with my parents to watch a premiere.
One more reason to choose a big city for a child is that a city provides better live
conditions and services such as medical, dental, etc. My friend lived in the country for a
while and one time he and his family had to drive a couple of hours to the nearest medical
center when his child got a heavy cough.
To summarize, I agree with those people who want to raise their children in a city. The
plenty of opportunities offered by a city helps children to find what they really like and be
the best at it. Moreover, despite the air pollution, children get a better medical service that
is good for their health.