In most countries in the world, governments require children to attend schools in which
trained teachers are responsible for educating the children using an approved curriculum.
However a significant number of parents believe that it is much better for their children to
be educated at home by the people who know them and their needs best. This essay will
examine the question of home schooling and discuss which the best option for the child is
An increasing number of parents are deciding that home schooling is the best option for
their children. They are unhappy with the quality or depth of education offered in the
schools, or have other reasons why they feel that traditional schools are not suitable for
their children. One reason is social factors. Parents worry that their children will suffer
from bullying or will be forced into antisocial behavior by peer pressure. They believe that
the good behavior they have taught the child will be lost in school. Another reason is
concern over the quality of schooling available. Schools frequently have large classes.
They are often under-funded, and staffed by teachers without sufficient knowledge of their
subjects. Subjects such as the family’s religion or language may not even be available in
the school. Other parents may disagree with the aims of the school curriculum, preferring
for academic, social or cultural reasons to keep their children separate. Finally, some
children with special needs may need particular parental care.
However, there are many arguments in favor of sending children to conventional schools.
The first is that the children will be exposed to other children. These children may
represent either a cross-section of society or a narrow group, but in either case the
children will interact with each other and develop social skills. A second point is that the
children will learn to function outside the family. They will not be dependent on their
parents for their educational, emotional and social needs. A third point is that the children
will find it easier to integrate when they finish school, as they eventually will, when they
start work or college.
Overall, while many parents work hard to teach their children at home, conventional
schools are still the right choice for most children. Schools are not perfect, but they seem
to be a proven way of preparing our children for the real world.